
[Jigar Patel's Write Up]

Overall, the project went well since we were able to come to a consensus on a dataset domain, prioritize various features to develop an MVP (minimal viable product), and collaborate effectively by dividing up the work.

It was a really good learning experience since we were able to put together a project by applying database and sql concepts we learned make a web application come to life. 

These types of projects are great since we can always expand on them outside of the class to gain enriching learning experiences. We can also add it to our github portfolio, resumes, job applications, linkedin, personal website, and talk about it at interviews to better promote ourselves. 

Throughout the course of this project I was able to learn a ton of things including project management, team communication, debugging, back-end development with node js and express, NoSQL databases like MongoDB, caching using a redis database, front-end development with a javascript framework called react and react-bootstrap. I learned that react is really powerful since it lets you create user interfaces components that are reusable for other aspects of the user interface. I also had the opportunity to learn about docker and how it's really useful for deploying applications by using containers and creating managed databases that have no limitations. If we were to scale the project to lots of users then we wouldn’t have any problems with costs since we are managing our own database infrastructure. On the other hand, we would have to pay if we used mongoDB managed by the company. 

In order to write the postgres queries I was able to read various documents websites like w3schools to make sure that it wasn’t different compared to other versions of sql like mysql.

I also learned to use a really awesome tool called postman that helps me  test my API routes. This gives us more confidence in the functionality of our application before creating a release. 

I was running my project in a linux machine in the cloud. It was beneficial but it was also challenging since it kept on disconnecting when I was trying to work on the project. Thus, I decided to simply install docker on my local machine and run everything on my local machines.
